================================================================
  DRUG-DRUG INTERACTION RISK CLASSIFIER — NIGERIA
  Project Description, Glossary & Technical Explanation
  Author: Ahmed | Version 1.0 | 2026
================================================================

This document explains the entire project in plain language —
what every component does, why each decision was made, and
what every abbreviation and technical term means.

----------------------------------------------------------------
SECTION 1: WHAT IS THIS PROJECT?
----------------------------------------------------------------

This project is a machine learning and deep learning system
that predicts how dangerous it is to take two drugs at the same
time. When a patient takes two or more medications together,
the drugs can interact — sometimes harmlessly, sometimes with
life-threatening consequences.

The system is specifically designed for Nigeria, using the list
of drugs officially registered and approved in Nigeria by the
government agency called NAFDAC.

The model looks at two drugs and outputs one of four risk levels:

  Class 0 — NONE      : No known interaction. Safe to combine.
  Class 1 — MILD      : Minor interaction. Monitor the patient.
  Class 2 — MODERATE  : Significant interaction. May need dose
                         adjustment or closer monitoring.
  Class 3 — SEVERE    : Life-threatening. Avoid this combination.

The final product is a web application where a doctor or
pharmacist can type in two drug names and instantly see the
predicted risk level, an explanation of why the interaction
exists, and what every model in the pipeline predicts.

----------------------------------------------------------------
SECTION 2: WHY NIGERIA?
----------------------------------------------------------------

Nigeria has a unique disease burden that creates specific
high-risk drug combination scenarios:

1. TB-HIV CO-INFECTION
   Nigeria has one of the highest rates of patients who have
   both Tuberculosis (TB) and HIV at the same time. Treating
   both requires taking anti-TB drugs AND antiretroviral (ARV)
   drugs simultaneously. The TB drug Rifampicin is one of the
   most powerful enzyme inducers known — it speeds up the
   body's breakdown of ARV drugs so fast that the ARVs become
   ineffective. This interaction is the centrepiece of this
   project.

2. POLYPHARMACY
   Many Nigerian patients manage multiple chronic conditions —
   hypertension, diabetes, HIV, and malaria — at the same time,
   meaning they take many drugs simultaneously.

3. LIMITED CLINICAL DECISION SUPPORT
   Many Nigerian healthcare settings lack real-time tools that
   flag dangerous drug combinations at the point of prescribing
   or dispensing.

4. NAFDAC REGISTRY
   Nigeria has its own drug regulatory body (NAFDAC) with a
   public database of approved drugs. Using this list makes the
   project authentically Nigerian rather than just applying a
   generic global tool.

----------------------------------------------------------------
SECTION 3: ABBREVIATIONS & WHAT THEY MEAN
----------------------------------------------------------------

--- ORGANISATIONS & DATABASES ---

NAFDAC
  National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control.
  Nigeria's equivalent of the US FDA. They approve all drugs
  sold in Nigeria. Their public Greenbook lists 6,432+ registered
  products. We scraped this list to build our Nigerian drug
  universe.

FDA
  Food and Drug Administration. The US government agency that
  regulates drugs in the United States.

FAERS
  FDA Adverse Event Reporting System. A US database where
  healthcare providers and patients report bad reactions to drugs.
  The TWOSIDES dataset was built by mining FAERS for drug pairs
  that caused adverse effects together.

TWOSIDES
  A scientific dataset created by Tatonetti et al. (2012) at
  Columbia University. It contains 4.6 million drug-drug
  interaction records, each one a pair of drugs and the adverse
  side effect they caused together. We use this as our primary
  source of labeled interaction data. Accessed via PyTDC.

PyTDC
  Python Therapeutics Data Commons. An open-source platform that
  provides easy programmatic access to biomedical datasets
  including TWOSIDES. Instead of downloading a CSV manually,
  we load the data in 3 lines of code:
    from tdc.multi_pred import DDI
    data = DDI(name='TWOSIDES')
    df   = data.get_data()

OpenFDA
  The public API (Application Programming Interface) provided by
  the FDA. We use it to fetch official drug label information,
  including interaction warnings written by drug manufacturers.

PubChem
  A free public database of chemical molecules maintained by the
  US National Institutes of Health (NIH). We use their REST API
  to fetch molecular descriptors for each drug (molecular weight,
  LogP, TPSA, etc.).

DrugBank
  A comprehensive pharmaceutical database that contains detailed
  drug information including which enzymes metabolise each drug.
  We use a curated lookup table derived from DrugBank data.

TDC
  Therapeutics Data Commons. The research initiative behind
  PyTDC, based at Harvard University.

WHO
  World Health Organisation. We reference their ATC
  (Anatomical Therapeutic Chemical) classification system.

ATC
  Anatomical Therapeutic Chemical classification. The WHO's
  system for categorising drugs by what part of the body they
  act on and what they treat. Example: Rifampicin is ATC code
  J04AB02 (J = antiinfective, 04 = antimycobacterials).
  We use this to group drugs into therapeutic classes.

--- CHEMISTRY & PHARMACOLOGY ---

DDI
  Drug-Drug Interaction. What happens in the body when two drugs
  are taken together. DDIs can be:
  - Pharmacokinetic (PK): one drug changes how the body
    processes the other (absorption, metabolism, excretion)
  - Pharmacodynamic (PD): both drugs act on the same biological
    target, amplifying or cancelling each other's effects

CYP
  Cytochrome P450. A family of enzymes in the liver (and gut)
  that metabolise (break down) most drugs. When one drug
  inhibits or induces a CYP enzyme, it changes how fast another
  drug is broken down, which changes how much of that drug
  reaches the bloodstream.

CYP3A4
  The most important CYP enzyme — responsible for metabolising
  approximately 50% of all drugs. Rifampicin is a powerful
  CYP3A4 INDUCER (speeds up metabolism). Clarithromycin and
  Ketoconazole are CYP3A4 INHIBITORS (slow down metabolism).

CYP2C9
  The second most important CYP enzyme. Warfarin is primarily
  metabolised by CYP2C9. Any CYP2C9 inhibitor (Fluconazole,
  Metronidazole, Ciprofloxacin) will increase Warfarin levels,
  raising the risk of severe bleeding.

CYP2D6
  Important for metabolising many antidepressants, beta-blockers,
  and opioids. Quinine inhibits CYP2D6.

CYP2C19
  Important for metabolising Omeprazole (proton pump inhibitor)
  and some antiplatelet drugs.

CYP1A2
  Important for metabolising Clozapine and Theophylline.
  Ciprofloxacin inhibits CYP1A2.

Inhibitor
  A drug that SLOWS DOWN a CYP enzyme. If Drug A inhibits CYP3A4
  and Drug B is a CYP3A4 substrate, then Drug A causes Drug B
  to build up to higher levels in the blood — potentially toxic.

Inducer
  A drug that SPEEDS UP a CYP enzyme. If Drug A induces CYP3A4
  and Drug B is a CYP3A4 substrate, then Drug A causes Drug B
  to be broken down faster, reducing its blood levels —
  potentially making Drug B ineffective.
  Rifampicin is the most clinically important inducer.

Substrate
  A drug that IS metabolised BY a CYP enzyme. If a drug is a
  CYP3A4 substrate, its blood levels will be affected by any
  CYP3A4 inhibitor or inducer the patient also takes.

Narrow TI / Narrow Therapeutic Index
  TI = Therapeutic Index. A drug with a narrow TI has a very
  small difference between the dose that is effective and the
  dose that is toxic. Even small changes in blood levels of
  these drugs can cause serious harm. Examples: Warfarin,
  Phenytoin, Digoxin, Lithium, Gentamicin.
  We flag these because any interaction involving a narrow TI
  drug is automatically higher risk.

Protein Binding
  The percentage of a drug in the bloodstream that is bound to
  proteins (mainly albumin) rather than free to act on target
  tissues. Only the free (unbound) fraction is pharmacologically
  active. Two highly protein-bound drugs can compete for the
  same binding sites, displacing each other and raising the free
  (active) concentration of one or both drugs.

Half-life
  The time it takes for half the drug to be eliminated from the
  body. Drugs with very long half-lives (e.g. Chloroquine:
  720 hours, Amiodarone: weeks) accumulate in the body and
  their interactions persist much longer.

Polypharmacy
  Taking multiple medications simultaneously. More drugs = more
  possible pairwise combinations = higher DDI risk.

ARV / Antiretrovirals
  Drugs used to treat HIV. They work by targeting different
  stages of the HIV replication cycle. Common ARVs used in
  Nigeria: Efavirenz, Nevirapine, Lamivudine, Tenofovir,
  Dolutegravir, Lopinavir/Ritonavir.

ACT
  Artemisinin-based Combination Therapy. The WHO-recommended
  first-line treatment for malaria. The most common ACT in
  Nigeria is Artemether-Lumefantrine (also called Coartem).

QT Prolongation
  The QT interval is a measurement of electrical activity in
  the heart. Drugs that prolong the QT interval can cause a
  dangerous heart rhythm disorder (Torsades de Pointes) which
  can lead to sudden cardiac death. Some antimalarials
  (Quinine, Mefloquine) and some antibiotics (Azithromycin,
  Moxifloxacin) prolong QT, so combining them is dangerous.

--- MOLECULAR DESCRIPTORS ---

MW / Molecular Weight
  The mass of one molecule of a drug, measured in grams per
  mole (g/mol). Larger molecules tend to have more complex
  binding profiles and may interact more broadly.

LogP / XLogP
  The logarithm of a drug's partition coefficient — a measure
  of how fat-soluble (lipophilic) vs water-soluble (hydrophilic)
  a drug is. High LogP = more fat-soluble = better membrane
  penetration but also higher risk of accumulating in tissues.

TPSA
  Topological Polar Surface Area. A measure of the total surface
  area of a molecule contributed by polar atoms (oxygen, nitrogen).
  Low TPSA = better absorption across cell membranes.
  Units: Angstroms squared (Å²).

H-bond Donors
  The number of hydrogen bond donors (NH, OH groups) in the
  molecule. Affects how the drug interacts with proteins and
  how well it crosses membranes.

H-bond Acceptors
  The number of hydrogen bond acceptors (N, O atoms) in the
  molecule. Together with H-bond donors, this affects
  solubility and membrane permeability.

SMILES
  Simplified Molecular Input Line Entry System. A text string
  that encodes a molecular structure. Example: aspirin is
  CC(=O)Oc1ccccc1C(=O)O. TWOSIDES stores drugs as SMILES
  strings; we convert these to feature vectors via DrugBank
  ID mapping and PubChem lookups.

--- MACHINE LEARNING ---

ML
  Machine Learning. The branch of AI where algorithms learn
  patterns from data rather than following explicit rules.

DL
  Deep Learning. A subset of ML using neural networks with
  many layers. Can automatically learn complex non-linear
  relationships in the data.

Feature / Feature Vector
  A numerical representation of an input that the model uses
  to make predictions. Each row in our dataset is a feature
  vector with 31 numbers representing one drug pair.

Feature Engineering
  The process of designing the input features for a model.
  Good feature engineering often matters more than model choice.
  Our features include both raw data (molecular weight) and
  synthesised signals (metabolic_conflict flag).

Target / Label
  The value the model is trying to predict. Our target is the
  severity class (0, 1, 2, or 3).

LR
  Logistic Regression. A simple linear classification model.
  Used as our baseline — the simplest possible model whose
  performance all other models must beat.

RF
  Random Forest. An ensemble of decision trees. Each tree
  is trained on a random subset of data and features. The
  final prediction is a majority vote across all trees.
  Good at capturing non-linear patterns.

XGBoost
  eXtreme Gradient Boosting. A gradient boosting algorithm that
  builds trees sequentially, where each new tree corrects the
  errors of the previous ones. Generally the best-performing
  model on tabular (structured) data.

DNN
  Deep Neural Network. A neural network with multiple hidden
  layers. Our DNN has 3 hidden layers:
  Input(31) → 256 → 128 → 64 → Output(4 classes)

SMOTE
  Synthetic Minority Oversampling TEchnique. A method to handle
  class imbalance by creating new synthetic training examples
  of the minority class. We use SMOTE because severe DDIs are
  rare — without it, the model would just predict "None" for
  everything and get a decent accuracy but miss all the
  dangerous interactions that matter.

GridSearchCV
  Grid Search with Cross-Validation. A systematic way to find
  the best hyperparameters for a model by training it with every
  combination from a grid of parameter values, then selecting
  the combination that scores best on cross-validation.

StratifiedKFold
  A cross-validation method that splits data into K folds
  (groups) while ensuring each fold has the same proportion
  of each class as the full dataset. Prevents a fold from
  accidentally having no Severe examples.

CV
  Cross-Validation. A method of evaluating model performance
  by splitting the training data into multiple folds, training
  on some and evaluating on others, then averaging the scores.
  We use 5-fold CV: mean ± std F1.

SHAP
  SHapley Additive exPlanations. A mathematical framework
  (based on game theory) that explains individual model
  predictions by computing how much each feature contributed
  to that specific prediction. Tells us not just what the
  model predicted but WHY.
  - Beeswarm plot: shows feature importance across all samples
  - Dot plot: shows direction of impact per class
  - Waterfall plot: explains one single prediction step by step

--- DEEP LEARNING SPECIFIC ---

BatchNorm / Batch Normalisation
  A technique that normalises the activations within each
  mini-batch during training. This stabilises training,
  allows higher learning rates, and acts as a mild regulariser.
  Critical for deep networks — without it, activations can
  explode or vanish across layers.

Dropout
  A regularisation technique where during training, a random
  fraction of neurons is "dropped" (set to zero) at each step.
  This prevents the network from over-relying on any one
  neuron (overfitting) and forces it to learn redundant
  representations.
  - Block 1: Dropout(0.30) — drops 30% of neurons
  - Block 2: Dropout(0.25) — drops 25% of neurons
  - Block 3: Dropout(0.20) — drops 20% of neurons
  Decreasing dropout through the network is intentional —
  later layers learn more specific features that are harder
  to relearn.

ReLU
  Rectified Linear Unit. The activation function f(x) = max(0,x).
  Used after each dense layer to introduce non-linearity —
  without it, stacking linear layers would still just be a
  linear model regardless of depth.

Softmax
  An activation function applied to the output layer that
  converts raw scores (logits) into probabilities that sum to 1.
  Example: [logit_None, logit_Mild, logit_Moderate, logit_Severe]
  → [0.60, 0.25, 0.10, 0.05] (sums to 1.0).

Adam
  Adaptive Moment Estimation. The most widely used optimiser
  in deep learning. It adapts the learning rate for each
  parameter individually using estimates of first and second
  moments of the gradients. Generally converges faster and
  more reliably than plain SGD.

Learning Rate (lr)
  Controls how big a step the optimiser takes in the direction
  of the gradient at each update. Too high = unstable training.
  Too low = very slow convergence. We start at 1e-3 (0.001).

ReduceLROnPlateau
  A Keras callback that automatically reduces the learning rate
  when validation loss stops improving. Factor=0.5 means the
  LR is halved. Patience=7 means it waits 7 epochs of no
  improvement before reducing. This helps escape local minima.

EarlyStopping
  A Keras callback that stops training when validation loss
  stops improving, then restores the weights from the best
  epoch. Patience=15 means training continues for 15 more
  epochs after the last improvement before stopping.
  Prevents overfitting and saves training time.

ModelCheckpoint
  A Keras callback that saves the model weights to disk every
  time a new best validation loss is achieved.

StepLR
  A PyTorch learning rate scheduler that reduces the LR by a
  fixed factor (gamma=0.5) every N epochs (step_size=20).
  Our schedule: lr halves at epoch 20, 40, 60, 80...

He Initialisation / Kaiming Normal
  A weight initialisation strategy designed specifically for
  ReLU networks. Sets initial weights from a normal distribution
  scaled by sqrt(2/n_inputs). Prevents gradients from vanishing
  or exploding at the start of training.

Logits
  Raw unnormalised output scores from the final linear layer,
  before the softmax activation. PyTorch's CrossEntropyLoss
  expects logits (not probabilities) for numerical stability.

CrossEntropyLoss
  The standard loss function for multi-class classification.
  Measures how different the predicted probability distribution
  is from the true one-hot label distribution. Lower is better.
  PyTorch handles the softmax internally when computing this loss.

sparse_categorical_crossentropy
  Keras's name for categorical cross-entropy loss when labels
  are integers (0, 1, 2, 3) rather than one-hot encoded arrays.

--- EVALUATION METRICS ---

Macro F1 Score
  F1 Score averaged across all 4 classes, giving equal weight
  to each class regardless of how many samples it has. This is
  the primary metric because it ensures the rare Severe class
  is treated as important as the common None class.

F1 Score (per class)
  The harmonic mean of Precision and Recall for one class.
  F1 = 2 * (Precision * Recall) / (Precision + Recall)
  A value of 1.0 is perfect. 0.0 is worst.

Precision
  Of all predictions for class X, what fraction were actually
  class X? High precision = few false alarms.

Recall
  Of all actual class X examples, what fraction did the model
  correctly identify? High recall = few missed cases.
  For clinical use, high recall on Severe is critical — missing
  a severe interaction is more dangerous than a false alarm.

ROC-AUC
  Receiver Operating Characteristic — Area Under Curve.
  Measures the model's ability to rank positive examples above
  negative ones. AUC of 1.0 = perfect. 0.5 = random.
  We use One-vs-Rest (OvR) — one ROC curve per severity class.

OvR
  One-vs-Rest. A strategy for applying binary classification
  metrics (like ROC-AUC) to multi-class problems. For each
  class, we treat it as positive and all other classes as
  negative, then compute the metric.

PR Curve
  Precision-Recall Curve. Plots precision vs recall as the
  classification threshold changes. More informative than ROC
  for imbalanced datasets because it focuses on the positive
  class performance.

AP
  Average Precision. The area under the Precision-Recall curve.
  Summarises the PR curve into a single number. Higher = better.

Confusion Matrix
  A 4×4 table showing, for each true class, how many samples
  were predicted as each class. The diagonal = correct
  predictions. Off-diagonal = errors. A well-performing model
  has large diagonal values and small off-diagonal values.

--- PREPROCESSING ---

Imputation
  The process of filling in missing values. We use median
  imputation: missing values are replaced with the median value
  of that feature computed from the training set. Used before
  ML models and DNNs which cannot handle NaN values.

StandardScaler
  Scales each feature to have mean=0 and standard deviation=1.
  Critical for Logistic Regression and DNNs (but not tree-based
  models which are scale-invariant). Prevents features with
  large numeric ranges (like molecular weight ~400) from
  dominating features with small ranges (like binary flags 0/1).

Train/Test Split
  Dividing the dataset into a training set (used to fit the
  model) and a test set (used only once at the end to evaluate
  final performance). We use 80% train, 20% test with
  stratification to preserve class proportions.

Stratified Split
  A split that ensures each class is represented in the same
  proportion in both train and test sets. Prevents the test
  set from having zero Severe examples by chance.

--- DEPLOYMENT ---

Streamlit
  An open-source Python library for building interactive web
  applications from Python scripts. Requires no HTML, CSS, or
  JavaScript knowledge. We use it to build the DDI Risk Checker
  web app.

st.cache_resource
  A Streamlit decorator that caches the result of a function
  call (like loading models) so it only runs once when the app
  starts, not on every user interaction.

st.cache_data
  A Streamlit decorator that caches the result of data-loading
  functions. We use it on PubChem API calls so the same drug's
  molecular data is fetched once and reused.

API
  Application Programming Interface. A way for software systems
  to communicate with each other. We use REST APIs (REpresentational
  State Transfer) for OpenFDA and PubChem — we send an HTTP
  request with a drug name and get back JSON data.

JSON
  JavaScript Object Notation. A lightweight text format for
  structured data. API responses come back as JSON which we
  parse into Python dictionaries and DataFrames.

pkl / .pkl
  Pickle format. Python's built-in serialisation format for
  saving Python objects (including trained models) to disk.
  We save scikit-learn and XGBoost models as .pkl files.

.h5
  HDF5 format. Keras saves model weights and architecture in
  this hierarchical data format. Can be loaded back with
  keras.models.load_model().

.pt
  PyTorch's format for saving tensors and model state
  dictionaries using torch.save(). We save both the model
  state dict (weights only) and a full checkpoint dict
  (weights + metadata like best epoch and feature columns).

--- REPOSITORY & WORKFLOW ---

Google Colab
  A free cloud-based Jupyter Notebook environment provided by
  Google that includes free GPU access. All notebooks are
  designed to run in Colab.

Google Drive
  Cloud storage we use as a persistent file system across Colab
  sessions. Data files, models, and results are saved to Drive
  so they persist when Colab sessions time out.

os.walk()
  A Python function that recursively traverses a directory tree.
  We use it in every notebook to automatically find files
  anywhere in the user's Drive without requiring them to
  specify exact folder paths.

joblib
  A Python library for efficient serialisation (saving) of
  large numpy arrays and scikit-learn objects. Faster than
  pickle for models containing large arrays.

----------------------------------------------------------------
SECTION 4: THE FULL PIPELINE EXPLAINED STEP BY STEP
----------------------------------------------------------------

STEP 0 — NAFDAC SCRAPER (00_nafdac_scraper.ipynb)
  We scrape https://greenbook.nafdac.gov.ng/ingredients across
  45 pages of HTML. Each page lists ~50 drug ingredients with
  their NAFDAC registration IDs. BeautifulSoup extracts the
  ingredient name and ID from each link. Combination products
  (e.g. "Abacavir; Lamivudine; Efavirenz") are split into
  individual generic names. Result: two CSV files saved to Drive.

STEP 1 — DATA LOADING & EDA (01_eda.ipynb)
  Loads the NAFDAC CSVs and TWOSIDES via PyTDC. Maps DrugBank
  IDs to generic names using a lookup table. Filters TWOSIDES
  to only Nigerian drug pairs. Seeds in 50 curated high-priority
  DDI pairs (e.g. Rifampicin + Efavirenz = Severe). Fetches
  molecular descriptors from PubChem for every active drug.
  Builds a 31-feature vector for every drug pair.
  Produces 7 EDA charts: severity distribution, drug class
  analysis, most dangerous pairs, CYP enzyme heatmap, molecular
  property boxplots, correlation heatmap, disease area profile.
  Saves ddi_nigeria_features.csv to Drive.

STEP 2 — MACHINE LEARNING (02_ml_models.ipynb)
  Loads ddi_nigeria_features.csv. Imputes missing values
  (median). Applies SMOTE to training data only. Scales features.
  Trains Logistic Regression, Random Forest, XGBoost (with
  GridSearchCV). Produces full validation suite: ROC curves,
  PR curves, confusion matrices, 5-fold CV, per-class F1.
  Generates SHAP beeswarm, dot plot, and waterfall explanation.
  Saves all models, scaler, imputer, leaderboard to Drive.

STEP 3 — DEEP LEARNING (03_lstm_notebook.ipynb)
  Same preprocessing as Step 2. Builds and trains Keras DNN:
  3 dense blocks with BatchNorm + Dropout, compiled with Adam,
  trained with EarlyStopping + ReduceLROnPlateau. Rebuilds the
  exact same architecture in PyTorch with a custom training loop,
  manual early stopping, and StepLR scheduler. Compares both
  frameworks head-to-head. Combines results with ML leaderboard
  to produce final 5-model leaderboard. Saves all to Drive.

STEP 4 — STREAMLIT APP (streamlit_app.py)
  Loads all saved models from disk. User selects two drugs from
  a dropdown of NAFDAC-registered drugs. App fetches live
  molecular data from PubChem, builds the feature vector, and
  runs all 5 models. Displays colour-coded severity badge,
  confidence score, probability bar chart, drug property cards,
  mechanism flags (plain-language CYP explanations), and a
  full model comparison table. Three tabs: Risk Checker,
  Model Performance (leaderboard + training curves), and
  About the Model (feature table, limitations).

----------------------------------------------------------------
SECTION 5: KEY DRUG INTERACTION EXAMPLES
----------------------------------------------------------------

Rifampicin + Efavirenz (Severe risk in Nigeria)
  Mechanism: Rifampicin induces CYP3A4 → speeds up Efavirenz
  metabolism → Efavirenz blood levels drop by ~26–71% →
  HIV treatment fails → risk of drug resistance development.
  This is the most critical DDI in Nigeria's TB-HIV context.

Fluconazole + Warfarin (Severe)
  Mechanism: Fluconazole inhibits CYP2C9 → Warfarin cannot be
  broken down → Warfarin levels rise dangerously → risk of
  severe internal bleeding (haemorrhage).

Verapamil + Atenolol (Severe)
  Mechanism: Both drugs slow the heart. Combined, they can
  cause life-threatening AV block (the electrical conduction
  between heart chambers stops). This is a pharmacodynamic
  interaction — not CYP-related.

Metronidazole + Warfarin (Severe)
  Mechanism: Metronidazole inhibits CYP2C9 AND directly
  potentiates Warfarin's anticoagulant effect. Very commonly
  co-prescribed (infections are common in Warfarin patients)
  making this a high-frequency dangerous DDI.

Artemether-Lumefantrine (No interaction — Class 0)
  These two drugs ARE the ACT combination therapy for malaria.
  Taking them together is the intended treatment — the system
  correctly classifies this as no interaction risk.

----------------------------------------------------------------
SECTION 6: PROJECT FILE INDEX
----------------------------------------------------------------

00_nafdac_scraper.ipynb
  What it does: Scrapes NAFDAC Greenbook website to get all
  drug names registered in Nigeria. Saves two CSV files.
  Run this FIRST.

01_eda.ipynb
  What it does: Loads all data sources, builds the feature
  dataset, and generates 7 exploratory charts. The main data
  engineering notebook.
  Input:  nafdac_ingredients.csv, nafdac_individual_drugs.csv
  Output: ddi_nigeria_features.csv

02_ml_models.ipynb
  What it does: Trains three classical machine learning models
  with full hyperparameter tuning, validation, and SHAP
  explanations.
  Input:  ddi_nigeria_features.csv
  Output: models/*.pkl, ml_leaderboard.csv

03_lstm_notebook.ipynb
  What it does: Trains two deep learning models (Keras DNN and
  PyTorch DNN) with the same architecture for comparison.
  Input:  ddi_nigeria_features.csv
  Output: models/*.h5, models/*.pt, final_leaderboard.csv

streamlit_app.py
  What it does: The interactive web application. Loads all
  trained models and provides a live DDI risk checker.
  Input:  models/ folder
  Output: Interactive web app

README.md
  What it does: The main project documentation for GitHub.
  Explains the project, how to run it, and links to all
  components.

ABOUT_MODEL.md
  What it does: The model card — detailed technical
  documentation of the model's design, data, features,
  architecture, metrics, and limitations.

requirements.txt
  What it does: Lists every Python package the project needs
  and the minimum version required. Install with:
    pip install -r requirements.txt

DESCRIPTION.txt
  What it does: This file. Plain-language explanation of the
  entire project including all abbreviations and terminology.

----------------------------------------------------------------
  END OF DESCRIPTION
  Drug-Drug Interaction Risk Classifier — Nigeria
  Author: Ahmed | 2026
----------------------------------------------------------------
